---

layout:     post
title:      "SYSTEM.md"
slug:       "system-md"
date:       2024-07-05 14:03:54
categories: [personal]

---

*Updated 2024-08-02.*

Hello, and welcome. If you've been handed this README, then you're someone I
trust. You're someone with whom I want to share the whole "me," or rather
should I say, "the whole 'us'". You see, I (we) am (are) plural, a system, a
collection of multiple persons in the same body, three sloths in a trench coat.
(That last one's a joke.)

![three sloths in a trench coat](images/three_sloths.webp)  *AI generated*

## Hamster Interlude

If you'll humour use for a moment, let us, show you a picture of our late
hamster, Estelle.

![estelle roar](images/estelle.jpeg)

Okay, moving on...

## Glossary of Terms

plural : (psychology, informal, not comparable, of a person) Having some form
of multiplicity, especially dissociative identity disorder.

multiplicity : (psychology) The condition of a single body/person displaying
multiple distinct personas.

dissociative identity disorder : (psychiatry) A mental disorder characterized
by the presence of two or more personality states or distinct identities that
repeatedly take control of a person's behavior.

system : (psychiatry) A set of alters, or the multiple (‚Äúthe individual with
multiple personalities due to, for example, a dissociative personality
disorder‚Äù) who contains them.

alter : An identity, part or personality state of a person with dissociative
identity disorder (previously known as multiple personality disorder).

front : the act of one alter taking control of the shared body

*All definitions except for "front" are from [English
Wiktionary](https://en.wiktionary.org). The "front" definition is my own.*

## Our experience

This is all still new to us. What we can say is that much of our life has been
marked by internal forces working at cross-paths with each other. Realizing and
coming out to ourselves was a spiritual experience where all-of-a-sudden these
energies, these people, could talk to one another and cooperate. This made us
feel the most comfortable in our body and our brain than ever before.

## Us

We are, to the best of our knowledge, five entities: three internal to the
system, two external (whom I will not introduce here.) Collectively we answer
to Stef (she/they). We do our best to be honest with one another, be kind to
one another, and cooperate towards achieving our common goal: namely to be a
kind human and leave the world a little better and a little weirder than we
found it. Our names were picked out of a bag of names we have either used or
considered using for our vessel. There isn't anything particularly meaningful
about them.

### Stef (she/they) üôã‚Äç‚ôÄÔ∏è

Stef fronts most of the time these days. Since its her name on the vessel right
now, she feels an extra sense of responsibility for keeping everything in
order. When she's not on the beam, she can be a bit controlling. She is
curious, sincere, and pragmatic. Her goal is to someday be a mother and a wife.

### Stephanie (Anie) (she/her) üíÉ

Stephanie is a younger (adult) spirit. She's silly, flirty, very outgoing,
sarcastic. She's very mindful, and full of joy, but she has the hardest time
fronting out of all of us, especially if we're under duress. She can be a blind
optimist. Her ultimate goal is to do humanitarian work.

### Tom (they/he) üßë‚Äçüíª

Tom is an older spirit, who fronted most of the time until late 2021, when he
consciously handed the reigns over to Stef. Tom is very smart, a bit of an
absentminded professor type. Tom abruptly starts fronting when they see an
injustice being carried, a person in danger, or sense that the system is in
danger. Tom's goal is to get out of the house and teach somebody something
fascinating.

## Conclusion

This page will be a work in progress for some time. Please feel free to ask
questions. Here are a few I anticipate:

* Should I address you any differently?
  * Probably not, we all will answer to Stef (she/they), and will let you know
    in the moment if we prefer something else.
  * If you want to address the system as a whole, you can use "y'all."
* Is it rude to ask to whom I'm speaking?
  * No, in fact it makes us feel seen and cared for.
  * We'll often sign off texts and messages (e.g. ~stef, ~anie, or ~tom)

If you're looking to read more about plurality, we recommend [Plurality
Resource](https://pluralityresource.org/plurality-information).

~Stef, Tom, and Anie
