---

layout:     post 
title:      "MANAGER.md"
slug:       "manager.md"
date: 2024-10-15 20:44:28 
categories: [personal]

---

Hello there! If you're reading this, then I might be your manager! I am
currently cosplaying as a manager at the Wikimedia Foundation. Different people
have different ways of wanting to know how to work (deal) with their manager. My
preferred method is synchronous conversation, but many people's preferred style
is reading and async conversations. This document is to help facilitate that
conversation and answer some questions you might have.

So, hey! My name is Stef Dunlap (she/they). I am [plural](system.md). I was born
Christmas of '88 in Colorado Springs, lived very briefly in England on an RAF
base, and grew up in Indianapolis. I then moved to Cincinnati, then the San
Francisco Bay Area (Oakland), and then Toronto. I'm poly, trans, queer,
genderfluid, and neurodivergent. If you want to know my deal, feel free to read
other posts on [this blog](https://kindrobot.ca).

The way I see it, my job is to support my reports to the best of my ability.
This may look like frequent  1:1s, async check ins, or help as needed. I'm also
here to be a guide when navigating the organization, including promotions,
raises, conflicts, bureaucracy, and red tape.

## Communication Style

### One-on-ones

One-on-ones are regular meeting between a manager and her reports (also
sometimes called "individual contributors" or "ICs"). This meeting is often
informal (though agendas can be helpful), and revolves around the reports
experience at the organization including: works-in-progress, blockers, feedback
(given or received), project goals, career goals, organization changes, vacation
and time-off, and work/life balance.

In my experience as a software engineer, I found one-on-ones to be often useful
but sometimes distracting. We also know that the cost of context switching
between meetings and "real work" includes increased stress an lower
productivity, and this burden is even greater for neurodivergent folks.

On the other hand, one-on-ones are my best tool for learning from, staying
connected with, and supporting my reports. Finding the balance of scheduled
one-on-ones, adhoc meetings, and asynchronous communication is not a science but
rather an iterative art.

Therefore as a starting point, I'd like to schedule to meet with you at least
two hours a month. This can be either 30 minutes a week or one hour bi-weekly.
Scheduling more time (either adhoc or reoccurring) is always an option. If your
preferred method of communication is asynchronous, then we can attempt to get
through all the items in chat, and if we're both satisfied that we've already
talked about everything we need to talk about, then we can skip the meeting or
end it early.

### Scheduling meetings and async communication

My working hours are 09:00 - 18:00 in Eastern Time (america/toronto).

You are always welcome to schedule a meeting with me. If it is outside of my
working hours or conflicts with another meeting or personal obligation, I may
ask to reschedule it.

Please feel free to message me on the chat app at any time, though I may not
respond until the next business day if it's not urgent.

### Talking about non-work things

I can be very open, candid, and personal. I consider very little of my life
private, and I might share details from my life or career with hopes that you
find it useful. You are welcome to share however you feel comfortable (including
not at all). You are also welcome to request that I refrain and keep everything
strictly profesh.

## Things we can work on together

I'm here to help and collaborate! Maybe you want to:

- move up in the organization (read: promotion)
- move laterally in the organization (read: new career path)
- work on a special side project
- work through a difficult conversation/situation
- make changes in the organization

I would be thrilled to help! We can talk about these in our one-on-ones,
schedule a special meeting, or collaborate asynchronously. I'm happy to give as
little or much assistance as you need. Before everything else, my reports
wellbeing is my top priority. I want to make sure you are content in and
(hopefully) excited about your work.

## On professionalism

I seriously do not care about formalities. I tend to be goofy, because I like to
use humour to bring (remote) teams together. However, we can have serious
conversations when we need to. 

## Paperwork

Unfortunately we do not live in a Marxist utopia but instead in a late-stage
capitalism fever dream. Therefore we have to do paperwork to do about the work
we do. The main one that comes to mind is vacation, time-off, and sick days.
Please take your vacations. Make a weekend a long weekend, or take a week or
more to do something awesome. What I ask is to have a few days notice for less
than a week and more a week's notice if it's a week or more. If it's more than a
week, make sure that it's OK with your team as well. If you're sick, you're
sick. Do not come to work. Let me know when you can. If you can, send me a
message, cancel your meetings, and update your status on the chat app.

I'll also likely ask you to put a little status update in a document every week.
This is not to prove that you did work, but rather to keep a pulse on what's
going on, and help where I can.

## Off-the-record

If you need a conversation that's off the record, you got it. I will stop taking
notes. I will not talk about what we talk about with others outside of our
meeting without your expressed permission. I will not use what you tell me
against you. I will however, not be able to forget that we had the conversation,
and I may want to follow up with you, even if it's also off-the-record.

## Wikimedia Foundation Specific

Wikimedia has a "silent Friday" which I respect. I will almost never schedule a
meeting with you on Friday. You are still welcome to chat with me on the chat
app and schedule a meeting with me if *you* need it. I take Wednesday as a deep
work day. If you schedule something on that day, I may ask that we reschedule it
to another day.

## fin

I am open to feedback on this document, whether you're my report or not. Please
reach out on the chat app or by e-mail.

If you have an emergency, you can reach me by phone (I'm also on WhatsApp,
Telegram, and Signal.)

+*1* ( *6* *4* *7* ) - *6* *5* *7* - *7* *0* *7* *6*