---

layout:     post
title:      "HYPOMANIA.md"
slug:       "hypomania-md"
date:       2024-07-04 11:52:47
categories: [personal]


---

Hello, and welcome. If you've been handed this README, then you're likely
interacting with me while I'm experiencing a
[hypomanic](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hypomania) episode. I've written this
README on some ways you can help (if you're so inclined) and some best
practices for interacting with me.

## About (my) hypo-mania

I have been diagnosed with bipolar II with a generalized anxiety disorder (GAD)
component. I'm under the care of doctors and counsellors who are aware of the
diagnosis and prescribe appropriate medicines and therapies. Despite this, I
still have regular hypo-manic episodes. These episodes can have obvious
triggers, but often they don't. They generally occur about once every three
months and last one to four weeks.

During an episode, I experience:

- dramatically raised and sustained mood
- impulsive behaviour
- [pressured speech](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pressure_of_speech)
- increased [sociality](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sociality)

While I am in an altered mental state, I do not (yet) experience
[psychosis](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Psychosis) or
[mania](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mania). I am mostly "in the driver seat,"
but I may be prone to taking risks or commitments that I wouldn't take in
[euthymia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Euthymia_%28medicine%29).

If I'm just coming out of a depressive episode, I may be more at risk for
suicidal ideation, planning, or execution.

## How you can help

Of course, my mental health is not your responsibility. This guide assumes
you're a friend, co-worker, manager, or family member who is likely to interact
with me during this episode. These are suggestions and requests, not
requirements. The most important thing I can ask, is **be kind, gentle, and
understanding**. Set boundaries if needed, and take care of yourself before
taking care of me.

### signs that I need to go to the hospital

There are certain signs or symptoms that indicate that I should go to the
emergency room. My preferred hospital is CAMH at 1051 Queen St W, Toronto, ON
M6J 1H3. If any of these symptoms arise, insist that I got to hospital, and if
I refuse to go, please call [211 or
911](https://www.toronto.ca/community-people/public-safety-alerts/community-safety-programs/toronto-community-crisis-service/)
and report that I am a diagnosed bipolar person experiencing a dangerous manic
episode and need to go to CAMH emergency.

- [psychosis](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Psychosis), e.g.
  - delusions of grandeur
  - extreme paranoia
- extremely risky behaviour, e.g.
  - putting myself is physical danger
  - planning major changes that would cut me off from loved ones, e.g. moving
    to a new city on a whim
  - buying things that would detriment my finances

### if you're a coworker or manager

Sometimes I am _much_ more productive when hypomanic, especially if my
attention stays fixed on work, but sometimes my attention can be sporadic and
disorganized. I will probably talk more in meetings and be generally more
jovial. I may share some things with you that I'd normally only say to a
non-work friend. I'm more likely to swear, and I'll likely walk the line of
"work appropriate" behaviour. I may get behind on work correspondence. 

The best things you can do are:

- give me gentle feedback if I'm behaving inappropriately
- check in and ask me how I'm doing
- gently inquire about risky or unsustainable behaviour (this is often done
  best by asking a question like, "is this a well thought out idea?" or "is
  this what we should be focusing on?")
- check in more frequently than normal; ask what I'm working on, and give
  honest feedback

#### on absenteeism

In _very rare_ circumstances, I will be AWOL (away without leave) from work. If
that's the case, especially if you're my manager: first, I sincerely apologize,
second, you're welcome to call me and confirm what's going on. Calling is
better than e-mail in this case, as I'm likely not checking my e-mail. When I
return to work, I will talk to my manager and confirm what happened, back date
any requests for sick/personal days, and accept any disciplinary action.

### if you're a friend or family member

When I'm hypomanic, I'm more disorganized. This carries over into my calendar
and correspondence. I may miss texts or forget to respond to them. Please,
please feel free to double text (i.e. text again even if I didn't respond to
the first message) or call me if its urgent.

Some things I find helpful from friends during an episode:

- grounding phone calls (these can either be about the current episode or
  something more casual.)
- gently inquire about risky or unsustainable behaviour (this is often done
  best by asking a question like, "is this a well thought out idea?" or "is
  this what we should be focusing on?")
- invitations to outings where I can burn off energy in a safe way (e.g. hikes,
  dancing, camping, short travel)
- words of affirmation, especially around traits that are muted in an episode
  (e.g. tenderness, thoughtfulness)

## Conclusion

Thank you for taking the time to read this README. If you have any questions,
you're welcome to ask. Mental health disorders, their causes and symptoms, are
an ongoing field of study. Items I've listed in this manual as helpful to me,
may be harmful to other people with (hypo)mania. If you have friends or family
members who are struggling with (hypo)mania and/or Bipolar disorder, talk to
them about how you can be most helpful.

**If you are struggling with thoughts of suicide, there is hope, and you do not
have to go through this alone. You can find a hotline to call in your country
at https://blog.opencounseling.com/suicide-hotlines/.**
